good evening and good morning if you
happen to be living in
new zealand the title of this video is
multiculturalism
is a mistake and i am pleased and proud
to see
that the very first comment in the
question section
is you're pushing the envelope
it's regrettable regrettable there's a
spelling mistake that comment it's the
wrong
you're it's y o u r instead of y-o-u
apostrophe r-e
but nevertheless it is completely true
i'm pushing the envelope of acceptable
discourse
and this live stream is worth recording
it's worth
sharing with you it's worth opening up
my comment section to hear of any of you
want to try to change my mind
nobody ever does precisely because i'm
not right wing
precisely because i'm not racist and
precisely because i am not
proposing a traditional model
of a monoculture that must be assisted
in
continuing into the future i think all
of those
are false paradigms in debating or
discussing
multiculturalism what we're debating
precisely
is a future culture that remains
as yet unestablished and unknown
if what we're talking about is that in
the year
2500 he was around him
if you imagine that in the year 2500
the people of france should still be
pious catholics
who go to the notre dame cathedral and
who still pray to the same images of
jesus
and you perhaps visit the plaque on the
floor that says
this is where napoleon bonaparte was
crowned if that's your idea of the
future
if your idea of the year 2500
is of a cultural continuity with the
year
1500 i don't think we need to be having
this conversation
at all the culture i am imagining
for the year 2500 is in a word
unimaginable that's exactly why we need
to have this conversation exactly why
this conversation is worth happening
is your assumption about the year 2500
instead that some people
in paris will still be pious catholics
still attending mass religiously at the
notre dame cathedral
and still honoring the memory of
napoleon bonaparte and in case you know
some of you don't pick up my drift here
you may not realize just what a kind of
left of center
dissident intellectual i am you you do
realize
napoleon bonaparte is responsible for
trying to revive
slavery in the caribbean you know you do
realize that napoleon bonaparte is
responsible for
destroying the democratic dreams of the
french republic and the french
revolution
reestablishing monarchy i mean napoleon
bonaparte is from my perspective a
completely morally despicable person
the history is worth studying the
history is worth knowing it's worth
learning from mistakes
but i mean before there was adolf hitler
there was napoleon bonaparte and he
really was remembered as one of the
worst people in the history of the world
before there were figures like hitler
and stalin who
made his evil seem quaint by comparison
he's a man with many massacres on his
record massacres of people innocent
and massacres of people who were not so
innocent but who nevertheless shouldn't
have been massacred
yeah the blind bar was a terrible person
but is your assumption
that in the year 2500
there was a multicultural paris with
each and every culture comprising
paris continuing to be as backward
looking
with every little tribal community
creating the multicultural mosaic of
paris
existing as a kind of perpetual
living museum devoted to its own past
where one of the facets in that mosaic
is a traditional catholic population
that it maybe doesn't just maybe it
worships jesus
maybe to some extent they worship the
memory of napoleon and they go to
the notre dame cathedral and then
there's another facet
which is north african muslim and
another
facet that's maybe saudi arabian muslim
and another facet that's indonesian
muslim and another facet that's turkish
muslim
and all of them are in this sense
equally conservative
equally backward looking
equally struggling to maintain
the cultural accretions and errors
of the year 1500 in the year
2500.
here we are in the middle of this
millennium long
process in the year 2021
and i'm saying to you in this sense
multiculturalism
is a mistake and what we are debating
is not the contrast between
multiculturalism and the preservation of
a monoculture
right it's not the difference between
having the cosmopolitan society that
frankly during the bill clinton
presidency i would say hit the peak of
idealization and idealism about
multiculturalism the idea that
you would be able to walk down the
street of every city in america
and in the same way that you could walk
through downtown new york city
and have indian food and chinese food
and mexican food
cuisines of the whole world you know
he's not completely wrong here guys this
is bill clinton's view of the future
that every small town in america would
likewise have
restaurants representing the cuisines of
the whole world living together in a
kind of
cacophonous harmony that we'd all be
able to share main street
we'd all be able to go to lunch together
and eat each other's restaurants all
this
all this and more is true this part of
the ideal i completely confess
you know is attainable here we are at
this
you know midway point between the year 1
500 year 2007. and i'm saying to you the
contrast is not between
bill clinton's vision of the mosaic
america
and the vision that one culture a
monoculture
should be preserved continuously intact
the reality
of the history of the world is that
absolutely
none of our cultures will be preserved
intact
and none of them should be
i do not want the future of france to
resemble
the past i do not want
the future of saudi arabia
or the future of afghanistan to resemble
its past and i do not want downtown
paris
or downtown toronto to be a mosaic
of any of these cultures each and every
one of which
i would like to see transcended
and transformed very fundamentally so
let's just let's just
put a human face on this shall we
the year is 2005
a.d and your great-great-grandson
is walking down the streets of paris and
having a delightful conversation about
circumcision saying oh tell me
in our enlightened age how does your
community
carry out circumcision oh really that's
interesting
over in my neighborhood where my
children
go to a separate school that recognizes
our ethnicity and our cultural tradition
this is how we carry out circumcision
whereas in your neighborhood
with your religious and cultural
tradition that's interesting you have a
different way of doing circumcision
well that's great we're all equal we
live in a multicultural society
where each and every one of us gets to
be equally ignorant
and equally self-righteous holding each
other
hand in hand in the great chain
of multicolored multilingual humanity
as we prance from the dark ages
to the even darker ages of the future
in which none of us is enlightened none
of us becomes an atheist none of us
rejects
the idiocy of our forefathers to proceed
to something fundamentally
better some of the writers all the
assumptions of our past
obsolete observe ridiculous
we look back on the world that it was in
and think what fools we were
right the model of multiculturalism
preserves
pardon me the model of multiculturalism
presumes at a very deep level
that each one of our communities exists
as a
kind of perpetual living museum
devoted to the glorification of the past
i'm going to glance at your questions in
the audience obviously i can i can speak
under
so anonymous 101 commented right off the
top before i started speaking
that his prediction is that he thinks
i'm going to go in the direction of
multiculturalism
oh go in the direction of claiming that
multiculturalism in the sense of
different belief systems is bad
however multiculturalism in the sense of
people from different cultures is good
so that's an interesting interesting
prediction you cannot evaluate
how how accurate or inaccurate your
apprehensions were but what
direction i would say say you're about
right and 75 wrong so far but who knows
by the by the end of this video we'll
see uh we'll see where it goes
so another comment from frida a regular
view of the show
she says that she thinks
multiculturalism in gastronomy should be
kept yeah
yeah uh
great question the audience how did he
get a name like bonaparte
referring to napoleon bonaparte uh he
was corsican
so his real name in corusca was more
like buonaparte
uh he had a he francified his name he
tried to sound
more french as his political military
career
uh proceeded in france but uh he began
as a
corsican i was gonna say a corsican
peasant
but actually his family were really more
like bankrupted nobility penniless
nobility
uh i think you might say
william mcgeehan comments no such thing
as a delightful conversation about
circumcision
well you can't imagine just how erudite
and refined people will be in the year
how familiar all of the objections to uh
to uh circumcision will become
so you know and actually here's uh so
several interesting questions here one
do you want to demolish christianity
question mark question mark in 500 years
okay
another interesting question what about
cultimulturalism
now i didn't mispronounce that that's
how we spelled it cultivation so yes
cultural so perhaps what he means is
cultural
multipleism i think would be a better
way to a
very provocative and interesting
question i must say so
joel asks do you want to demolish
christianity in 500 years okay
um
think about how much violence
would be required to eliminate
christianity entirely in the space of
just
five years think about how much
will be required to eliminate
christianity
in 50 years
100 200 500 years
progress comes at a terrible price
we talk about progress as if it's all
good
and no evil why don't you ask the people
of afghanistan how they feel about that
we promised the people of afghanistan
progress and we delivered
at a terrible price
how long did we wait around
to get rid of the islamic state
also known as isis did we take the
attitude
that we should wait 500 years
did we take the attitude we should wait
50 years did we take the energy which
weighed five
the islamic state was
put out of business
in number of months with tremendous
violence
and a tremendous cost and i'm not saying
this to insult my audience
i appreciate the people here by the way
if you guys want to pause and hit the
thumbs up button
you can change your mind later and uh
hit thumbs down or under the thumbs up
on
help more people discover and join the
audience of this tremendously
provocative podcast is going
i would ask has anyone in this audience
read the history of the islamic state
its rise its fall its destruction has
anyone read a single book of that
babe why don't you grab the tiny book on
the history of cereal just show that out
i mentioned it now i'm not saying that
to insult your intelligence anyone in
the audience
life is finite
i bought this book on the history of the
conflict in syria
it's not long it's a very modest very
time efficient book i think the guy who
wrote it spent about 40 years
involved with the the politics of of
syria i'm sorry if it's 30 years if i've
been spoken but this guy basically
devoted his life
to the politics of syria as far as i
know and he wrote a very concise
book on the topic that's what i'm
willing to put into
the ongoing you know political crisis in
syria the history that i think this
covers about a thousand years
it covers the whole culture of political
class any of you guys done that
for what what happened everyone watching
this
during your lifetime isis unfolded
basically it was barack obama
through donald trump was their advice
it's really easy to talk about learning
the lessons of history isn't it
and it's not so easy to actually learn
the lessons of history my point is guys
i'm finite too my attention span is
finite too i can only give so much time
to syria and this this is about the size
of it
this is about the extensive and there
are there are many many other topics on
my bookshelf
that frankly are a higher priority for
me you know uh
short term
um i have made other videos talking
about multiculturalism before
and i think one of the points i've made
implicitly before that i should now make
explicitly is this
when people talk about the integration
of multiple cultures they leave it up to
your imagination to suppose
that they are integrated horizontally
that they are integrated laterally
they do not talk about the integration
of
differing cultures hierarchically
vertically unequally
canada has plenty
of new immigrants coming in from saudi
arabia
do you think it would be a good idea to
have people
cross the ocean accept canadian
citizenship
and join our society as slaves
no no no no no that would be terrible no
no no no
no no no we did that before didn't we we
integrated foreign cultures into our own
not equally not horizontally not
laterally we integrated foreign cultures
at the
absolute bottom of our system
of social hierarchy in an extremely
unequal
extremely prejudicial extremely
oppressive way
oh well no no no we'll never go back
that's not what we mean by
multiculturalism okay there are a lot of
very poor people
in the philippines and they're willing
to do
almost anything to leave the philippines
behind and
come to canada
at what level of canadian society
are they integrated are any of my
university professors filipino or any of
the politicians
filipino are any of the
commanders the leaders of our society
filipino what
really is the presumption about how
people from the philippines
will be integrated into our society now
i've spoken to people who work in these
fields i have also spoken to university
professors who study this stuff formally
i had one university professor who was
involved actually with
union activism for filipinos in toronto
and
had interesting conversations with him
um
there are recognizable patterns
in how filipinos are incorporating a
site and this is partly because there
are
recruitment agencies and companies that
organize this and receive
formal permission from the governance on
so in downtown toronto
we had tremendous numbers of filipinos
who worked as
cleaners in hotels they were hotel
janitors both male and female
there's another whole community of
filipinos this is well known in
uh california especially who work as
nurses
who work in hospitals and there are
special training you know
there was a whole regimen in canada a
government regiment
for actively recruiting in filipinos to
work as our babysitters
we use the french term au pair for this
ah this is very different from slavery
this isn't this isn't like slavery in
the past at all
is it oh no no this is multiculturalism
oh oh really
so we're integrating these people we are
quote-unquote integrating these people
into our society in such a starkly
unequal way so what is it about their
culture
that is being integrated it's completely
clear
of course the extent to which they are
being exploited
as low wage labor the extent to which
they are being actively recruited to do
jobs that either canadians are unwilling
to do
or the canadians are going unwilling to
do at such low wages
where canadians would have to pay a
higher wage to do that job so the
employers would be
willing to recruit people in the
philippines it doesn't seem to me
that people from the philippines are
being recruited
as cultural ambassadors it doesn't seem
to me that they're being brought here
really to enrich our culture
in any way at all
now you may or may not tell from my
rather arch
tone you know um
i'm open to the possibility
of a much more meaningful cultural
exchange with the philippines
that strategy would look completely
different
in the city that you are living in
wherever you are
watching this i'm certain there are
small
for-profit language education
schools agencies shops there are
there are small businesses and small
possibly small government agencies
to help teach newly arrived filipino
immigrants english you know there are
people who arrive here speaking almost
no english at all or very little english
they get a job as something like a
babysitter or cleaning rooms and hotels
and to help them learn english where are
the programs
to help me learn any of the languages of
the philippines for example
tagalog it's not the only language
spoken was
oh i'm sorry i thought this was a
multicultural
society that wasn't your idea of
multiculturalism
your idea wasn't that government
education was going to support
me in integrating into their culture oh
i'm sorry
how were we going to incorporate aspects
of their culture into ours
oh i'm sorry are we reaching out to the
people of the philippines
to bring over those who would best be
able
to be cultural ambassadors to bring over
something of real substance and real
significance
from the philippines their literature
their theater
their history where is the filipino
history professor in my high school let
alone my university
who is telling me about the history of
their country and what i have to learn
from it
there is there is a possibility in some
kind of
parallel science fiction universe
of multiculturalism really sincerely
being
about the productive and positive
exchange between cultures but that's not
what we have
that's not what's uh ongoing right now
now i'm gonna mention this to you guys
so okay so we've got some cynical
comments zen master me comments
that he's pretty sure there are not too
many filipino
nobel prize laureates so you may think
the filipinos have nothing to teach us
you're wrong you may think you can't
benefit
from the study of the history and
politics of the philippines
you're wrong
what was the first
colony of the united states
of america what was the first overseas
war of conquest fought
by the united states america it was the
american invasion
of the philippines starting in 1898
1899 it's really rolling by 1900.
okay one of the most important turning
points
in the history of america in the
american empire was a decision to invade
to conquer to colonize the philippines
anyone want to guess the body count you
guys will google it
i can't do this anymore unless i can
prevent you from googling okay
the current estimate is that the
americans killed one
million people in total conquering the
philippines
circa the year 1900 it happened over
several years
some of it was through starvation
straggling disease
injury wasn't entirely through the
firing of bullets
but there were mass graves there were
enormous numbers of people killed
uh by the lowly rifle by old
fashioned rifle gunfire there were no
gas chambers there were no other methods
use
okay actually actually
there are really interesting political
authors from the philippines
who reflect on their history of european
colonialism
their history of the conflict between
christianity
and islam you may not know that about
the philippines they have a history of
being divided between
muslim and christian and you know
european influence and asian influence
and they have a history of being
conquered by the united states of
america
and then being incorporated into the
american empire as frankly no other
country in the history of world does
but even if you want to compare it to
the vietnam war if you want to compare
it to america's invasion and conquest of
haiti
who want to compare something else
it was the first it was a landmark it
was a turning point
in the history of the american empire
and by the way that's also part of the
genesis of the japanese empire
why did world war ii happen in asia it's
because japan
saw what the americans did in the
philippines and said hey we're next
look at a map there's no real difference
between japan and the philippines
geographically
okay there are cluster of islands on the
outermost cusp of asia
japan was aware of this they said okay
the americans took
hawaii the americans took the
philippines
either we become a great world empire or
in all likelihood
we're next and they had their own
experience with shall we say american
hegemony
they did have good reasons
i am not an apologist for the japanese
empire
i do not glorify any period of japanese
history frankly i'm really not very
pro-japan
at all however i can explain
the japanese empire i can explain how
it originated primarily from american
and british influence the model for the
japanese empire in many ways was the
british empire
they looked at a map and they saw this
one small island
that had dominated a huge part of the
world
partly by building an outstanding navy
etc
they said look at this little island
england that for most of them they'd
never visited certainly the emperor
of japan would never visit england they
had they had written descriptions
of what england was like by the dutch
they had
texts that were translated from dutch
into japanese
holland also you know the dutch empire
was another example
it was a tiny country with a small
population
but that had managed to conquer and
control a huge part of the world okay
the dutch empire the british empire
and now here comes the american empire
oh
all right there's a model of something
there and in large part
the genesis of their imperialist
ideology was in fact
defensive this is digressing from the
point about
if we're talking about multiculturalism
if we are talking about the integration
of foreign cultures right we cannot
possibly mean only recruiting
cheap labor to be at the bottom of our
society
in a form that is really the 21st
century
equivalent to slavery i know their
status in our society is
much better than the slaves of say the
17th century or the 18th century
i am aware but nevertheless
the status of filipino immigrants in our
society
is balefully the lowest of the low and
there is absolutely no interest
in terms of government policy in having
a meaningful
integration of our culture into theirs
or their culture in ours of one learning
from the other
of having the filipinos take up a role
of leadership
or influence in our society
if the idea was really to have
multiculturalism wouldn't there be
seats in our parliament
for the filipino community wouldn't they
have representation
wouldn't we be interested not just in us
governing
them but in having them govern
us isn't that the whole concept of
responsible government government of the
people by the people
for the people however you want to put
it different people express as well you
know responsible government
isn't the idea not that we're going to
be equal
separately but that we're all going to
be equal together
and become part of the same democratic
society
the tragedy of multiculturalism is that
we all know that's not
that's not the plan at all
there are some very wealthy people in
saudi arabia there's very wealthy people
in china
who would like to immigrate to canada
also you know i'll just digress about
this why is it that so many wealthy
people
from uh why isn't so many wealthy people
from china want to leave china
you get to a certain point in china
where
you have done a favor for someone in
government or someone has done a favor
for you
and no matter how abstractly honest
you've been
it is possible you will face criminal
charges for corruption
seems that everyone who becomes a
multi-millionaire in china wants to move
a lot of their money outside of china
because they can be persecuted by the
same communist party that has made
their whole career possible so you meet
wealthy people
who became wealthy in china either
moving their own money outside of china
moving their relatives outside of china
whether they moved to vancouver in
canada or they moved to
thailand wherever it is they they want
to escape
but you know likewise there are very
many uh wealthy
saudi arabians who would like to move to
a western
democracy like canada why don't we
welcome them
why don't we prepare in our
multicultural society
not to integrate them the way we
integrate
poverty-stricken refugees not the way we
filipinos
why don't we welcome in
the wealthiest most powerful most highly
educated people
from saudi arabian society or from china
to take their seats in parliament to
take their seats at
city hall to take their seats in the
senate in canada you don't even have to
be elected to the senate
literally the the queen or the prime
minister can just point
at a seat nobody votes for you you take
up your state in government
we could have very easily have seats in
the senate for filipinos
for the chinese or for saudi arabians
they could come
and they could rule over us or they
could participate in our democracy
as equals they could teach at our
universities they could become
our leaders right
now you see the whole tone of the
discourse shifts
when we're no longer discussing the
filipinos
and we're instead discussing a culture
like china
or saudi arabia right
we have been unwilling to question the
extent to which
our model of multiculturalism presumes a
starkly unequal and frankly oppressive
form of hierarchy
in which the foreign cultures integrate
into arm
in which the foreign cultures integrated
into our own
are presumed to take up their place at
the bottom
and frankly to remain there forever
nobody white black
brown indigenous european colonizer no
one of any background
is imagining a future in which canada
becomes sinusized the latin term becomes
more of a chinese
society in which we in any way for
example reform our education system
to more resemble a chinese education
system in which our children grow up
learning about the philosophy of
confucius the philosophy of lord chan
the philosophy of
sunza nobody has suggested that we even
reform our education system
to teach our children the modern history
of china what happened with mao zedong
what happened to china during world war
ii this is apparently of absolutely no
significance towards your system
naturally nobody has proposed the idea
that our primary schools or high schools
should teach our students the history of
the philippines
what i just told you could be common
knowledge about what happened in the
philippines 100 years ago
apparently it doesn't matter to us no no
no
we're all just going to go on teaching
british empire history in the british
empire way in what is frankly a white
western euro center
eurocentric completely racist completely
conservative completely backward looking
mono cultural way
and we presume that any other cultures
integrated into our own will be at such
a low level
we'll be in such a position of
powerlessness
that they will by sheer dent of
poverty be compelled to assimilate
into the wealthier culture right
i will take a moment now to answer
questions paul means guys prove me wrong
change my mind uh so far nobody you know
nobody's really
you know disagree with me which is fine
i'm i'm happy to uh
i'm happy to i'm happy to respond to
your questions i'm happy to respond to
your objections i'm i'm happy i'd be
happy
if this podcast ends with me coming to
the crushing realization that i've been
very much misled about the past present
future
william mcgeehan comments the whole idea
behind multiculturalism is integration
and assimilation
they have to accept separation of church
and state but oftentimes
don't so william
you're mistaken integration
and assimilation that's monoculturalism
not multiculturalism
if you believe in integration and
assimilation
then you would have one school system in
the city of toronto
we could be talking about a city in
australia we could talk about city and
england
could use any i'll just say toronto
toronto doesn't have one school system
no no no no no
toronto has a catholic school system
toronto has a protestant school system
right it has a francophone school system
right
when you start to look into oh yeah
there's that italian school it's just
specifically italian
catholic i'm thinking of a school with a
hilarious name it's dante allegherie
high school it's named after the guy who
wrote a famous poem about hell
dante's in front of anyway fantasy oh no
no there's a portuguese
high school there's a korean high school
toronto had
several jewish only high schools
toronto had muslim-only high schools
that's not assimilation integration
that's multiculturalism
the difference is not subtle right
and toronto did have
okay in toronto i do not remember a
chinese
school there were chinese cultural
centers
i do know that in other cities in canada
in calgary there are separate chinese
schools
where people are raised speaking chinese
and studying
chinese things i know that in paris
there are chinese schools we've talked
to some of them
so in some places chineseness also is a
basis for a separate school the same way
that being
francophone is uh or being muslim or
being jewish or some of these other
criteria
whereby people set up a separate
education system so that what is the
point of that
short term and long term right what are
we talking about we're talking about
preserving
one identity forever as i said 30
minutes ago
right we're talking about a mosaic in
which
each subculture exists
in a state of being a sort of perpetual
museum devoted to
preserving and contemplating the
greatness of its own
prior history right in which uh the
distinctive features of
judaism christianity islam chineseness
frenchness and so on
that they are perpetuated forever and
ever and ultimately
500 years from now in the year 2521
the same religions the same petty
distinctions between
cultures will be preserved that's
multicultural
and i'm pointing out the most
fundamental error here is the
presumption
that the future should be in this way
behold into the past
instead of planning for a future in
which our own culture
is profoundly different from what it is
now
and is much more different from anything
it was before
great comment from ugly bob quote dude i
was at panago getting a vegan pizza last
month with my buddy in west van
i pointed out that the pizza shop was
open until 1am and said
ain't no locals born here willing to do
that
um shout out to panago pizza in west
vancouver
um uh someone else in the audience
comments that his grandfather built the
felt
the first pharmaceutical manufacturing
plants in the philippines the late 1950s
i had a filipino repairman come into my
home once
so this was when i was university age um
uh i i saved my parents money by staying
at home when i was in university by the
way my parents at that time claimed they
were poor
they were flat broke they had so many
kids
it's possible that they were temporarily
poor and and the kids
many of them were in university at the
same time so i just mentioned it's it is
plausible that i was
so i stayed at home for university
anyway this this filipino repair guy
came in i totally forgot what he was
there
the the vents i totally forgot what
repair he was there
and the minute he came in the door he
said hey
you know i'm from the philippines and
everybody there knows your dad
your dad's a big guy dad's a famous guy
and philly's dad's a very important man
oh yeah you know i always have a
somewhat
sardonic air about me i did really
respond to this as if it were a joke and
he said yeah
and he went on to describe um
how personally indebted he felt to my
father
for my father's work and creating what i
believe is just called the national
museum
of the philippines if i've gotten the
name wrong i apologize maybe it's the
national history museum of the
philippines it was something like this
this history museum and i know that was
politically a tremendously contentious
museum in terms of the message it's sort
of pro-democracy
pro-equality message delivered to the
public and like then there were
elections and the new government took
over hated this museum that had been
created by the government that just been
power before them there was
all this contention but i remember i was
a really rare i mean most my father is
not famous like that there's just
nowhere
there was a guy he just walked in off
the street to do these repairs and he
was really taking the time to tell me
this
and i told my father my father was not
bewildered
but anyway really interesting
really interesting example of how my own
family's
history intersected with the philippines
and also it shows the way in which life
in toronto and that guy by the way i
wasn't imitating his accent he could
barely speak english he spoke broken
english
on he'd obviously just uh arrived from
the philippines recently or or
hadn't studied much english in since it
got canada
it also shows the way in which living at
toronto your whole life is
and meshed with filipino immigrants
although in a totally
um unequal way
um the toothless prophet asks
how's that doing writer lawsuit
progressing well there is a whole
playlist
for that topic so if you go to playlists
and search for the word
doreenrider you can you can get the last
update we made on that
um i don't think the future holds out
much hope
for another update but i mean if if my
lawyer in chiang mai makes some kind of
breakthrough and gets back to me
you will be the the first to know uh but
yeah obviously i did i did continue
making updates on that case
as long as there was anything worth
saying
here's a question from the audience how
would you tackle the practical problem
of achieving some kind of human unity
like dissolving religion
and promoting science some cultures will
obviously resist such a
change so i just mentioned that question
comes from amogh
i could i could pretend to pronounce
your name in various ways based on the
presumption of where this name
comes from but perhaps um
okay i don't believe in
unity i'm not here to preach
unity i'm here to preach minimum
standards
no matter what you believe i do not
think that you
as a parent should have the right to cut
off
part of your child's penis
that's called circumcision all right i
don't really care
if your excuse is the muslim faith
or the christian faith huge number of
christians cut off
but you know the same ritual it's a
slightly different ritual by the way the
same
the same fundamental surgical procedure
right now you may not know this there
are
indigenous people in australia who are
not christian and not muslim who carry
on an animist
traditional tradition there are
indigenous people in south africa
who have their own traditions of
circumcision genital mutilation
shall we say okay i think
all of that should be illegal because
what i'm interested in is not
unity it's minimum standards
right now it's quite liberating
to talk about minimum standards
we're not talking about maximum
standards i am not actually
interested in talking about the extent
to which we should force
all people to learn algebra or calculus
melissa what level did you study algebra
and calculus do i think you did
university yeah
yeah melissa did university level
calculus
melissa at any time in the last
five years have you made use of your
university education in calculus
i'm gonna give her a minute here
no i
understand what you're getting at in
talking about
unity and talking about dissolving
religion and talking about promoting
science
you know promoting science would involve
things like raising the knowledge of
mathematics of god i understand that and
at first it seems
sympathetic but my approach to politics
is really about minimum standards
you know now even that one example
i've given of a minimum standard okay
let me ask you
how much violence would it take to
eliminate
circumcision in 500 years
how much to eliminate it in 50 years
how much do you eliminate it in just
five
seems like a simple example the
enforcement of a minimum standard there
it's as simple as you want it to all be
thanks to latin red who encourages you
to hit the thumbs up button
i i make no money from this the amount
of money i make from this you can see
from patreon it's
symbolic but giving a thumbs up helps
other people discover the
live stream and join the conversation so
that we're all frankly more entertained
so i appreciate if you give a thumbs up
but
yeah uh conversely i understand
with the title of today's video some of
you might feel a bit intimidated
it is what it is all right um sorry i'm
trying to go through these in order here
and it keeps
jumping to the bottom
quote do you think western democracies
have a preference to integrate people
from other western democracies close
quote so question from from freda so her
question is
does multiculturalism favor the
integration of one
western democracy to another my answer
is no
i think the reality is that employers
in canada actively recruit
powerless people people who will not
talk back people who will not question
and contact their employer
people who will not form unions people
who will not
fight for their rights people who will
not go to city hall
and participate in local politics i
think the tragic
reality is that what i see again and
again across the whole of the canadian
economy is a preference for inequality
that resembles slavery as much as is
legally possible and it's sickening to
me
so i'll give two examples here there are
farms
right in the outskirts of victoria
victoria's name the city
i live in the farms are in between the
city and the airport just to give you an
idea of how close it is
it's just it's really just in the
suburbs these farms and
these farms have a youtube channel
yeah unusual where they recruit
minimum wage and below minimum wage
labor
that's piece work you're not paid by the
hour you're paid on how many things you
plant how many things you pick
you know this kind of thing so how
little you get paid is
and you know what the funny thing is on
their youtube channel they have
instructions
on how to do the job in punjabi
[Music]
in this list of exotic language i think
in tagalog
languages from india languages in the
philippines they're actively recruiting
low-wage laborers i would assume legal
perhaps illegal perhaps they don't ask
but they're actively recruiting workers
who don't
speak english and i have met and spoken
to people and i have read
comments written on the internet for
people who are born and raised in canada
and speak english as a first language
and when they go to try to get the same
job they are refused
and they're insulted and scorned they're
treated very badly so they won't come
back
by the farm owners why do you think that
is
they want employees who don't speak
english
they want employees who won't ask
questions and they'll make this youtube
video
explain to you how to do the job and
then they'll put you in the back of a
truck
and take you to this farm and they want
you to silently work in that field
and take your 30 or whatever you paid
and get out
and that's all that they want they're
reinventing
slavery in a more legal guys
why do you think tim horton's
donut and coffee store actively recruits
and actively
employs people from the philippines
using a special visa program permitted
to them
by the government of canada rather than
recruiting and employing
canadian citizens rather than recruiting
and employing for example
first nations citizens are indigenous
people
there are some first nations
reservations that have like 80 percent
unemployment the populations are really
small by the way you're talking about
like 100 people
so you say 80 unemployment it's not that
many people but you know there are you
can go into some areas where there's
this really high rate
of unemployment you could send out a
truck and recruit people say hey guess
what
instead of importing people from the
philippines
we're just going to drive our truck and
we're just like hey we can give you a
really well-paying job in the city and
you can start a whole new life
and guess how easy the job is you take a
cup you pour coffee in the cup you hand
it to someone
you take their money anyone can do that
job and it sure helps
if you speak english fluently they don't
want people who speak english
they don't want people who have
political rights they don't
want people who have the self-assertive
attitude of being citizens who have
ownership of this
country who are part of the leadership
that's going to be a part of debating
and deciding the future of this country
they want
meek subservient submissive
supplicants
and that's what multiculturalism gives
them access to
and that's why they're not recruiting
canadians and they're not recruiting
americans
and they're not recruiting people from
sweden or germany
or france all right and that is the way
in which the
the hierarchy of so-called
multiculturalism
present really produces an invidiously
divided society
that in some ways resembles slavery
all right uh here's a
comment from mr kurtz quote doesn't
multiculturalism make poor countries
more corrupt
because the people who value democracy
and fairness will just relocate so the
situation becomes more hopeless in their
homeland
so i have made videos talking about that
aspect
in the past the relationship between
both
immigration and refugee policy
and the further impoverishment of the
making
hopeless of the source country rather
than the destination country so i have
made videos
uh talking about that i'm not going to
repeat that here this country is dealing
so this video is dealing with a
destination country with canada with
the country being migrated to i will
just say very briefly
that migrants and refugees
alike transform their country
of origin with their absence
who leaves dissidents
intellectuals people who are motivated
to change the country
who leaves entrepreneurs
you know young business people who want
to do something new something different
people who care about democracy people
care about a better life
people who
let's talk about afghanistan guys what's
happening right now in afghanistan
who is leaving afghanistan and what's
the effect
on afghanistan going to be if we open
our doors to allow as refugees
everyone who wants a more secular
democratic life
from afghanistan instead of telling them
no you have to stand and fight for the
future of your country
you know i mean afghanistan's an extreme
example but guess what jamaica is an
extreme example too
you know a whole lot of the talent that
could go into transforming the future of
jamaica
is instead living in downtown toronto
jamaica is a small enough country that
the toronto
the community that's in otto transforms
jamaica by its absence to a greater
extent than it
transforms canada by its presence
someone asks can we get some more foot
soldier impersonations
so a comment from sat 12 says quote
if your co if your title is
multiculturalism is a mistake
this implies you believe influenced by
the government on
immigrants to assimilate is not a
mistake
okay close quote i i think this is a a
confused and confusing comment sat12
so this brings me back something i
started saying video and didn't really
finish i thought about okay
um i live in the capital city
of my province in canada
where can i learn chinese
where could i learn german
where can i learn japanese
oh oh i thought this was
multiculturalism
oh i'm sorry shouldn't we have a very
muscular very proactive
policy of the government to promote
education in these languages and to
promote these cultures i mean culture is
much
greater than language oh i'm sure where
can i see
traditional chinese opera
oh oh that's not government policy oh
what what is
government policy you know again i think
the filipinos are a very palpable
example you have a huge population here
filipinos when i was in toronto i
believe now we had a huge
population of tibetans there's no
there's no government policy to provide
you with education in the tibetan
language
good luck learning tibetan and toronto
there's there's nothing to promote
tibetan culture you know you know and
it's even difficult to imagine what that
would
look like okay so if you actually
had a policy for multi-culturalism
that would involve bringing over
representatives of the
culture of china to teach us to enrich
us
in our lives with chinese culture right
to actually enhance and transform
canadian culture with chinese culture
that's not what's happening at all
right the the assumption that british
empire multiculturalism is based on
is instead that immigrants like the
filipinos will enter society at its
absolute bottom
and will become a silent and subservient
part
of the greatest whole a pardon me will
become a silent and subservient part of
the greater whole
right and i'm saying that's really a
rather evil and oppressive
um assumption it's a it's a bad model of
society
it is a mistake now if you want to talk
about
in some other sense true
multiculturalism
i mean i really think even just
imagining
the primary school classroom puts this
into focus
i went to primary school with chileans
they were refugees from chile i went to
school with
koreans i went to school with greeks
i could think about the difference there
was one jamaican
there were there were different
representatives of cultures around the
world russians
don't remember a single chinese person
from china i remember koreans
just being honest through my own school
my own class or whatever you know there
probably were a couple chinese somewhere
i don't know in my own school as it as
it happened
okay and and what is the education
they're given they are
exclusively given a white western
eurocentric
british education it's a uniquely
canadian
education it's uniquely anti-american
education in fact
if you want to get into the political
details the main thing we're being
taught is how superior we are to the
americans because we're canadian
what does that mean to someone who just
immigrated here probably their parents
flipped a coin
they're like well we were gonna
immigrate to new york but we decided on
toronto for this reason like uh
what's the difference oh yeah okay we've
signed up for you know canadian
nationalism
right so you know you know
what would multi multicultural education
mean
what would be the status of chinese
culture in that classroom we'll just
have to
set us the chinese language will be the
status of japanese culture filipino
culture
african culture jamaican culture so i
know africa is a continent not a country
body woman nigerian culture you want me
to specify within africa
what is going to be the representation
of these cultures in these languages
you know in the classroom what what
actually are you going to teach children
what life
are you going to pray with oh oh oh oh
and aren't we
aren't we forgetting someone aren't we
forgetting the cree
the ojibwe the inuit the dene the mohawk
oh right and this is the other irony
about multicultural this is the other
sense in which it's a
mistake is that it's just a fig leaf
for the reality of british empire
genocide
right is that the united states canada
australia
to some extent new zealand they're all
just based on genocide of the indigenous
people
at the end of the period of unflinching
and overt genocide we didn't turn it
around and say okay
well now we're going to have
multiculturalism with our own native
people
now we're going to change the system of
education and the system of political
representation
and we're going to change our culture in
a real meaningful sense
to represent and include our indigenous
people as equals
no no no we continued to commit genocide
against our peoples we continue to erase
them
from history and certainly from the
classroom and from parliament for all
these institutions
but we decided to share the guilt
by bringing in people from poland and
china
and the philippines and everywhere
possible in the world
we decided to diversify the colonialists
the settlers the people you know
complicit
in genocide if not actively
participating in it
so again this is another sense in which
multiculturalism is a mistake
is that it's an extension of it's a
perpetuation of british empire
genocidal policy
oh so sorry it keeps uh the comment
thing keeps snapping down to the most
recent
comment but i'm trying to just read
these one by ones that come up
so someone comments there's that fustel
de claude quote about uniting disparate
beliefs
uh otherwise i forget it also as a
french canadian this is a 100 valid
point
uh um
okay so numa
denistel de colange
talks about the multiculturalism of rome
of ancient rome
they incorporated foreign cultures
into rome by incorporating their gods
into their own religion they had temples
for foreign gods they had ceremonies for
foreign gods
they had priests for foreign gods and
they were incorporated into the pantheon
of rome they had a kind
of
they had a kind of pluralistic society
we can't
imagine today you know on this basis
right they incorporated
foreign cultures into rome by
enslaving them
and they raped the slaves and they had
children with the slaves
you know and they committed infanticide
and all these other
unspeakably barbaric things right and
they incorporated
foreign cultures into rome also through
military alliances
and by having foreign cultures fight
with rome as equals
shoulder to shoulder they would then be
incorporated into the empire on a very
different basis
not slavery so
you know the the multiculturalism of
rome
um it's a cautionary
fable in many ways
i could say a lot more about it i'm just
going to be honest i could talk about
this for an hour
but i think for the purpose of this
video
what we should recall from numa numa
dini
fustel du claus from this particular
author
is that his conclusion his ultimate
point if you ever get at the end of the
book it's very long
very long slow difficult book to read
and it's not his only book
but his other books i think were never
translated in english i've only read
them english
the ultimate point of his book is that
the example of
rome is so alien to
our own culture primarily because of the
religion
that it's really false and misleading to
presume any kind of parallel between the
two
his point is ultimately that we should
stop drawing conclusions about
our past present and future on the basis
of
very loose and misleading comparisons to
to ancient rome
so i do think that's that's salient here
uh
to mention you know um
but it's not true that the united
disparate beliefs
you know in this very peculiar way they
just incorporated foreign cultures kind
of
whole cloth uh into rome and if you guys
look into it
um to give an example you know hercules
himself
hercules was a north african god i know
you guys don't remember him that way but
he was
hercules came from north africa it is
everything about his legend even the
locations of the events in it and so on
and what hercules did um his origin is
neither
greek nor italian and both the greeks
and the
and the romans ended up with their their
own version
of hercules
just reading through your comments guys
so someone comments i don't know if you
can see traditional chinese opera
but you can watch plenty of falun gong
shows in bc
lol
uh somebody in the audience says jj
gave you props where in canada are you
from so i am from just down the road
from jj we live
in victoria uh victoria british columbia
canada so
jj is three hour trip from here
we've never met him face-to-face irl but
at this point we feel we know him
uh pretty well so uh here's a comment
from sat12
good i like these these cutting comments
quote
your title is multiculturalism is a
mistake but instead you are arguing that
multiculturalism is
good but hypocritical
so i think you need a comma here or a
semicolon and then he says
false multiculturalism is bad okay i'm
going to answer that just a moment i'm
going to come back to this
provocative comment we're going to just
read the others just a few more and then
i'll come back to that
so uh shout out to
[Music]
kujurapic close to the informal border
between the
korean inuit nations i don't know how
many viewers i have in
could you rebecca shout out to good
europe a comment from erasmus simply
saying that multiculturalism is a failed
fantasy
erasmus it's 2021.
it hasn't failed yet it has not failed
yet that's why this debate is worth
having right
is communism worth debating anymore like
things that have really failed
you know what i mean so yeah okay let's
let's put this in a shower focus if you
go to phnom penh cambodia today
if you go to the capital city of
cambodia and you say hey guys we're
going to have a debate about whether or
not we should go back to communism
nobody in cambodia is going to debate
the option of going back to congress
nobody no admittedly that's not the
whole world
i mean if you go to kerala
in southern india and you say hey guys
let's have a debate about whether or not
we should try communism
in southern india it hasn't been
discredited that maybe there'd be a few
people in southern india say hey guys
i know what happened in cambodia or
something but you know when you talk
about something
that has really failed that has really
been discredited it's very different
no multiculturalism hasn't failed yet
it hasn't been discredited it's very
much worth debating for the reason i
keep indicating over and over
that precisely what we have to uh what
we have to determine is the is the is
the future
um the future of a culture that remains
i think
definitionally um unknowable and unknown
ah i gotta click i'm gonna click a lot
of things here all right
so i'm just reading the last few
comments here i'm gonna go back and
reply to that one before
okay here's another interesting comment
from rasmus
quote having so many parallel
communities
isn't really a society those people who
want to assimilate will be okay as they
become one
but everyone else will mostly be of
making of the parallel communities
poorly phrased but i understand that the
point
um
erasmus what do you think about south
africa today how did how did south
africa turn out
you know i i think that it's really
worth taking
seriously what multiculturalism already
is in what are genuinely multicultural
societies a lot of you guys may not know
this mohandes gandhi
the lawyer and politician known as
mahatma gandhi
his career began in south africa
south africa had to some extent still
has
a hindu community as a multicultural
society i got an email recently from
someone who's part of the uh
the jewish community in south africa
everybody in south africa who had the
money
to get out i mean you know they migrated
to israel some of them migrated to
france into canada and so on
you know as south africa has kind of
fallen apart uh many of those
formerly multicultural communities have
withered up and have moved on
but south africa is an example in the
sense
of a of a multicultural community what
would it mean
to assimilate in south africa whoever
you are watching this i have
viewers of all different ethnic groups i
viewers of all different
linguistic backgrounds i really do if
you personally
not an abstract hypothetical person if
you
chose to move to south africa would
you assimilate into south african
society and how and what would that mean
okay i knew a white south african quite
well
and within south africa
there are the the dutch white people the
people of dutch ancestry
and there are the british white people
and they don't mix
they don't assimilate they have separate
schools they have separate universities
like either groups of different white
people that haven't assimilated with one
another
and to some extent they hate each other
they're politically divided and so on
right and this is without even getting
into the kind of division you're dealing
with with say
south asians east asians the different
black groups the division between black
and white
this is a deeply deeply divided society
and of course it's profoundly unequal
right and so it's great common finance
and the question is where will those
nations be in 150 years
right so that's what i opened this by
asking starting with the local future
in the year 2500
what is the society of paris going to be
what
is the society of afghanistan going to
be what's the society of saudi arabia
what's the society of south africa what
is the kind of society
you want to have and how are we going to
get there so just to refer back to
cree people so but if you don't know
cree are one of the indigenous people of
canada
their proper name is the nihi away win
i'm not even saying that correctly
that's the name of their language it's
nehemiah
anyway i think there's nakey away for
the people
you know okay 500 years from now
i want the cree language to exist
i want the cree people to exist
i do not want them to still believe in
supernatural aspects of their religion
from 500 years ago
you know i look at 500 years ago i look
at 500 years in the future we're in the
middle making this transition
right now even with something as simple
as that if i
just do not want this language to go
extinct
think about the tremendous sacrifices
the tremendous
vision and commitment and policy
direction we're gonna
need to have a future in which there are
human beings on the planet
still speaking the cree language 500
years now are you willing to get it
now conversely what is your vision of
the future canada
it's it's not possible for everyone to
speak 10 languages
is your vision of the future of canada
one isolated community where people
speak chinese
and one where they speak vietnamese and
one where they speak cambodian
those three groups do not get along i
grew up in a neighborhood where we had
portuguese
speakers from brazil and portuguese
speakers from portugal
and they did not get along we had greeks
from greece
and greeks from macedonia and they did
not get along we had southern italians
and we had northern italians they did
not get along this is downtown toronto
i'm not joking
it wasn't uh it wasn't war but i was
saying they
they absolutely did not get along and
the different communities from the
caribbean
you know haitians and jamaicans and
jamaicans
and people from the turks and caicos
islands and uh
you know dominicans and so on they do
not get along with one another okay
but what is your vision of future of the
future of canada
or the future of paris in the year 2500
is it that some people over here speak
chinese and go to a chinese language
school
and some people here speak vietnamese
and some people here
speak cambodian and none of them get
along with one another
and each of them has a separate school
system
and a separate religious foundation you
know a separate
buddhist temple or muslim temple or
is that your your vision of the future
i think that's a tremendously dark and
depressing vision of the future
right and you have to recognize if the
cree people
are going to have a special status in
canada in their own homeland
if the ojibwe people are going to have a
special sentencing if the
mohawk people like we don't have just
one indigenous people
but whether collectively or selectively
if the indigenous people of canada are
going to have a special status
in their own homeland of course that is
going to be
to the exclusion of other cultural
religious linguistic and historical
traditions because it is not
humanly possible to study at all to know
it all to receive a sophisticated
educational and look guys i'm jewish
in some ways the jewish people are the
most persecuted people in history of the
world
but guess what we're also the most over
hyped people in the history of the world
the education
i received was about judaism in primary
school in middle
middle school in high school again and
again and again
the only thing we learned about was
condoms aids and judaism
in my whole high school primary school
education the holocaust was like the
only thing we learned from history okay
you learned about the holocaust again
and again and again
you learned about anti-semitism again
and again and again and you learned
about wearing condoms that you wouldn't
get aids and that was about it
but like the extent to which you know
the conflict between christianity and
judaism the conflict between jew and
gentile
and the extent to which christian
culture is itself derivative of and
devolved from
jewish culture in the bible it's a
massive part of
formal education in my own cultural
upbringing right
how much did i learn about the cree
growing up how much did i learn about
the ojibwe
how much did i learn about vietnam how
much did i learn about the philippines
how much did i learn about china
even sorry again i mentioned some of the
other cultures in my classroom we had
greeks
we had russians yeah i mentioned all
these other cultures
we didn't learn anything about their
their countries their culture they had
nothing
absolutely nothing pretty safe even
though yes jews have been persecuted and
suffered terribly
throughout history but the extent to
which they are
treated as the primary other
the primary antagonist in the british
empire view
of the history of europe is remarkable
so we were we were kind of an
over-hyped aspect of that
that education and everyone everyone
knew all about
judaism in my school everyone knew all
about israel and palestine
you know the ongoing conflict everyone
knew all about
the holocaust and we studied it again
and again and again
i'm so sorry there was a good question
here i wanted to come back to
maybe it's too late okay i think uh
i think this would you think
multiculturalism is good
right that was it thanks babe okay so
the title from
stat 12. pardon me the comment from set
12 is quote
your title is multiculturalism as a
mistake but instead you are arguing
that multiculturalism is good but
hypocritical
i.e that false multiculturalism is bad
um
okay what is culture
okay i am neither arguing in favor of
monoculturalism nor multiculturalism
now my view
of culture is that all of it
is fundamentally bad and evil and wrong
um i've given the example of
circumcision
again and again and again
we're not the only culture that has a
history of circumcision
there's a history of circumcision in
africa there's a history of
circumcision and amongst the indigenous
people of australia
that is just as brutal if not more
brutal if not more
terrifying okay we're not the only
culture to have devised this
okay i am not saying
that one culture is good
and others are bad and evil and i'm not
saying that many cultures
would be good whereas one culture
is bad and evil and wrong when we think
about what culture
is it is the accumulation
of past beliefs it is the burden of
ignorance we take on from our ancestors
it's a set of authoritarian
attitudes that the past is trying to
impose
upon the present and the future and we
have to resist it
all now
chinese culture is interesting to me no
offense
i have probably read more about the
history and politics and philosophy of
china than you have
in the eye probably if any of you are
big fans of
lord shang and sunza and early han
pre pre-handed the philosophy he's like
great okay
yeah but you know chinese culture is
interesting to me and in terms of
understanding
the world as exists today and what's
going to happen in the future it's
important
it's not good i've never said it's good
i've never said it's wonderful right
i've never said i'd want to raise my own
daughter
or raise my own grandchildren to believe
in
chinese philosophy or chinese religion
or chinese tradition
i've never said i want to raise my kids
to be able to act out the dramas
of beijing opera or cantonese opera
right never never i don't even think
chinese pop culture is good
i don't want my kids growing up watching
kung fu movies from hong kong
none of it um
now again i don't know who's in my
audience i have some sense i've been
reading your comments
the odds are i know more about the
history of
india than you do i've done quite a lot
of study about the history and politics
of india and
literature and philosophy of india i
won't get into my whole backstory how it
is i spent years doing that
i know a lot about india right i do past
president and future but especially the
past let's be honest a lot of my
interest in india was about
2000 years ago i have some interest in
my money okay
the literature of ancient india whether
you think of it as philosophy
religion or if you think of it as just
archaeology and anthropology
it's interesting there is a sense in
which it is
important analytically in understanding
what's going on today and the future
okay but all of it all
of it is bad
and evil and wrong all right
when i'm talking about circumcision i am
giving you
one example of how the irrational
authoritarian attitudes of the past
are punitively inflicted on the next
generation
are impressed upon the next generation
at a stage at an age when none of us
can talk back when none of us can reason
with our parents or grandparents on our
own behalf
and say think of the future do you think
500 years from now in the year 2500
people will still be eviscerating their
bodies this way in the name of a magical
ritual
how can you be so blind all right
um you know
the horrors of the hindu religion
you know may be more subtle if you
haven't put in the hours of study
they may not be as obvious as the
example of
circumcision okay but they're just as
terrible and from my perspective they
also
need to be overcome
right um the horrors
of chinese communism may be more obvious
you know it may be quite easy to see
what was wrong
about the dictatorship of mao zedong
it is certainly quite easy to see what
was wrong about the dictatorship of
adolf hitler right you ever
you ever sat down and talked to someone
who really believed in those things
someone who supported those things and
tried to
bring them into your 21st century
detached enlightened perspective to help
them understand
trump have you ever sat down with a
buddhist
who believes in meditation and tried to
deprogram
i have all right now again i see
the evils of culture some are more
obvious than others probably for the
people in this audience and by the way i
have many
i have many uh
ex-muslim viewers you can guess why they
like this channel
people used to be muslim and aren't
anymore they write to me they let me
know how much they appreciate the
channel
um i don't have i don't have many
viewers total but you know i i do
i do hear i get appreciative email and
and instagram messages and so on from
people who are
who are ex-muslims for the people in my
audience
it's probably very obvious what's wrong
with the muslim faith
the drawbacks to the muslim you can
probably very easily think about how
you personally would not want to become
muslim
how you would not want your own son or
your own daughter
to start practicing the muslim faith to
convert how you wouldn't recommend it to
others you can think of the ways in
which you would make your own
life worse and then i start talking
about buddhism
let's say the form of buddhism practiced
in thailand
okay so specifically thai buddhism
or then i start talking to you about
communism the type of communism
practiced in
china today it may
not be so obvious to you
the way in which this cultural tradition
is bad and evil and wrong the way in
which it would
really snuff out your own potential
as a human being ruin your life and to
some extent
ruin the life of your descendants if you
imposed upon them
the same cultural pattern okay
the problems with buddhism are more
difficult
to explicate than cutting your dick off
um when i started this channel
i named it a balacial
in large part because i really wanted to
deal with those problems i want to deal
with them a third going away
i thought about writing a book at that
time really dealing with
what's wrong with with buddhism and it
still matters to me i still care you
know and i still care about those people
on a one-to-one level when i meet and
and deal with those people
um you know there there are 24 hours in
the day
okay there are a lot of buddhists who
meditate for one hour a day
it's common all right the
impact on your life of circumcision
the impact on your life of meditating
for one hour a day
now there are other buddhists who do not
meditate for one hour a day they work a
job relatively intensively
they save up money and every year they
donate a large percentage of the money
they've earned
to a buddhist temple to a buddhist
institution
and they then go on a retreat it's an
interesting term
and they stay for possibly several
months
but at least several weeks let's say six
weeks or something
to engage in fasting meditation
chanting right
it may not be obvious to you
the damage done the harm done what's
lost here
right and the pattern of self-righteous
ignorance that's being reproduced from
one
generation to the next it may not be as
obvious as self-evident as the evil done
through circumcision but i'm saying to
you it's it's just as evil
it's just as wrong and again if you have
grandparents who are nazis and raise the
grandchildren to be neo-nazis
it may not be obvious to them what's
wrong with that but it's obvious to
all of us and if you have grandparents
who are communists
and they raise the grandchildren to be
communists all right
um the most fundamental reason
why i'm opposed to multiculturalism is
in this sense my critique
of culture itself what
are we talking about when we talk about
culture
if not a way for the dead to impose
their will
upon the living if not the
stupidity and self-righteous ignorance
of the past
um destroying individually or
collectively are possible futures
things enough